A quick-start handbook
for effective prompts




October 2024 edition




                         1
Writing effective prompts
From the very beginning, Google Workspace was built to allow you to collaborate in real time with other people.
Now, you can also collaborate with AI using Gemini for Google Workspace to help boost your productivity and
creativity without sacrificing privacy or security. The embedded generative AI-powered features can help you
write, organize information, create images, accelerate workflows, have richer meetings, and much more, all
while using your favorite apps like Gmail, Google Docs, Google Drive, Google Sheets, Google Meet, Google
Slides, and Gemini Advanced (the standalone chat experience available at gemini.google.com with enterprise-
grade security). Gemini is accessible right where you are doing your work — with access to your personal
knowledge base in Drive, Docs, Gmail, and more — so you can enhance and create powerful workflows across
the Workspace apps with less tab switching and interruption.


This guide provides you with the foundational skills to write effective prompts when using Gemini for Workspace.
You can think of a prompt as a conversation starter with your AI-powered assistant. You might write several
prompts as the conversation progresses. While the possibilities are virtually endless, you can put consistent
best practices to work today.


The four main areas to consider when writing an effective prompt are:
• Persona
• Task
• Context
• Format


Here is an example of a prompt using all four areas that could work well in Gmail and Google Docs:


      You are a program manager in [industry]. Draft an executive summary email to [persona] based on [details
      about relevant program docs]. Limit to bullet points.


You don’t need to use all four in every prompt, but using a few will help! Always remember to include a verb or
command as part of your task; this is the most important component of a prompt.




     Contact sales to get started with
     Gemini for Workspace today.




                                                                                                                  2
Here are quick tips to get you started with Gemini for Google Workspace: